YouTube Transcription Report
Generated: 2025-10-26 19:51:47
Video Title: A conversation with Jony Ive
Channel: Stripe
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wLb9g_8r-mE&t=1434s
Duration: 59:05
Published: 2025-05-08
Model: OpenAI Whisper API (whisper-1)

Full Transcript:
way we think. And the words that we use to frame a problem are some of the most important. And so I would sort of frame the issue of, how can we work wonderfully efficiently to create something with breathtaking quality? As organizations grow, there is another kind of tension where maybe for various people here in the audience, certainly this is something I've experienced. In the early days, in the earliest days, it's just you. And then there's maybe a couple of other people. But you can kind of say abreast of everything that's happening. And you feel like you have the opportunity, at least, to exercise your taste or judgment or opinion in whatever the issue might be. And then perhaps things continue to scale. And at some point, it becomes far beyond the scale and scope of any single human. And then there's this discontinuity where there are things that happen that I never saw. I never had the chance and opportunity to weigh in on. I don't know how I feel about it. I wouldn't have done that thing over there. Apple was not a small company when you were there, certainly not in the later years. How do you deal with this? And I think it's both the scale and scope. But also, doesn't it feel intrinsically unreasonable to simply say that this thing here doesn't accord with my taste? I think it's very reasonable to say that. But it's very, very hard, isn't it? I think what I have, I do believe that we go through chapters or seasons. And the painful part is the conclusion of one and the beginning of the next, where we have to adjust and we change our approach. I think the one thing, obviously, it will not work to assume how we started is how we're going to finish. And so I think being very clear that we are in a constant state of flux. And it's trying to figure out, I believe, what is what I'm not going to compromise. And I think that's the very clear focus on your principles and your values and your motivations. The alarm bells always go off for me when I think, why did I do that? Has a motivation shifted? And that's when I've really been upset with myself and disappointed with myself and reset. But I do think if our motivations and values remain the same, we will find ways to be the control freaks we were born to be. And which, of course, I mean, or we can say, care as much as we, but let's be honest. For a design team that you're leading or participating in, what are the rituals? Well, one of the things, I think that there's nothing more important to me than the creative team and declaring that and being clear about this is my contribution. And therefore, I need to be part of an extraordinary team. But that's just the price of admission, isn't it? So you can have the people, but practice, our process, our practice, the protocols are so important. Over many years, I mean, I've been doing this and leading small creative teams for, I mean, over 30 years. These are some of the things that I've found important. If you're dealing, as I was describing earlier, with concepts that you can't measure with numbers, if you're dealing with ideas that always, if you think about the evolution of an idea, it always starts off as a thought and then a tentative discussion. One of the things I realize is just how, you know, these ethereal thoughts, these fragile concepts are precarious. And I think a small team of people that really trust each other is, I think, is fundamentally important. Trust and love each other, who care about each other. If you care about, you know, then you might be in danger of actually listening. You know, the thing that just kills so many ideas, and I've worked in places where this happens, but people are just desperate to speak and to be heard. And there's nothing like, you know what kills most ideas, I think, people desperate to express an opinion. And it's really, let's be very clear, opinions aren't ideas. I was going to say something really rude then, but I won't. But I think... You can say it, we can cut it from the video. But the, to be quiet and to listen. And one of the things that terrifies me, I know that I've missed really amazing ideas that came from a quiet place, from a quiet person. And that really scares me, because I don't know what I've missed. And so talking about the rituals, I think doing things that mean our relationship is authentic and deep. You know, one of the things that I discovered that I think is really important, you know, we tried a lot of things at Apple, and most of the things that I tried didn't work out. But a few things I was excited about and grew, I think, to be very powerful. I think one, as a practice, it's very good to make things for each other. I think for that to become part of your daily way of connecting to your team, to think about what you can make for each other, that's just really, it puts you in a lovely place. It makes you more worried about them than you. It makes you vulnerable, and it makes them grateful. And that's a lot, isn't it? I mean, those things, just think about what I said. That starts to define quite a lovely culture. And then connected to that, something I was really struck by. Paul Graham says, make things people want, and Johnny Ive says, make things for each other. Yes. I mean, that's what we do, isn't it? I mean, all we're doing is at a very personal level, practicing what we're doing, you know, at our professional level. All of us here, I guess, almost every single person here, we're about making something for other people. And so perhaps, I don't know quite what the... Make things people want, I feel, is sort of a business strategy, whereas it sounds like what you're saying is make things for each other is a team strategy. Well, as it was, so for example, one of the things I thought was great was that you, you know, every Friday morning, I asked that one person on the design team would make breakfast for the whole team. And we took it in turns. Awesome, make things for each other. I'm imagining, you know, prototype iPhones, but no, it can also be bacon and eggs. I'm talking cornflakes and milk. I mean, we saw, I mean, dizzy heights of some of the food, and some of it was so shocking. But it all came from the same place in terms of motivation. And something that was connected that I was surprised at how powerful it was, excuse me, was we would host, we would take it in turns to have the design team come to our homes, and we would spend a day working in our home. And this is something I probably thought way too much about, but that it was in a very, very powerful way of, one, doing or encouraging us in our practice to do good work, and in building the team. And I think there's an interest.
